Copyright (C) 2010-2013 iClaustron AB. All Rights Reserved.

iClaustron is a set of programs which can be used to run a grid of clusters
providing a large Clustered file system to the end users of the iClaustron
API.

A full iClaustron Grid contains one or more iClaustron Clusters. Each cluster
contains a set of iClaustron nodes. There is a wide set of different types of
nodes in a cluster.

The iClaustron Cluster Servers contains the configuration of the iClaustron
Grid. These nodes acts as a simple distributed database ensuring atomic
updates of this configuration and ensuring that these changes are propagated
to the individual nodes at proper times. Any node starting up in a cluster
must access one of those iClaustron Cluster Servers to receive the grid
configuration which they are allowed to access.

The iClaustron Cluster Manager is a program that can be accessed from an
iClaustron Client program. The Cluster Manager contains a parser that
handles a command language from which it is possible to look at the state
of iClaustron Grid and all its parts. It is also possible to change the
state, both of the configuration and start, restart and perform software
upgrades of the individual servers in the grid. The iClaustron Cluster
Manager listens on a socket for commands according to a very simple
protocol. It's thus possible to access it from any program written to
handle this protocol in addition to the iClaustron Client program.

The Data Server nodes are the heart of the iClaustron Grid, this is where
the data is stored. The Data Server nodes are the Data Nodes of MySQL Cluster.
iClaustron implements a way of accessing data in MySQL Cluster through a
file system API and also ensuring that this file system can access data
stored in multiple clusters. The Data Servers support active-active
replication inside the iClaustron Cluster.

The iClaustron File Server contains an implementation of the iClaustron API
which is used to make file system API users able to access data in the
iClaustron Grid. In the initial implementation it's intended to use the
FUSE API to achieve this. Later more ways will be added. The end goal is to
make a module inside the Linux OS such that efficient access to the iClaustron
Grid can be performed from any Linux program.

The iClaustron Replication Server is a program that is used to replicate
changes inside one of the iClaustron Clusters to another cluster. This
cluster can be inside the same iClaustron Grid or in a different iClaustron
Grid.

There is also another program which is an important part of the iClaustron
package. This is the iClaustron Process Controller (ic_pcntrld). This program
needs to be installed and will run on each computer (or virtual machine) which
implements a part of the iClaustron Grid. This program is used to start and
stop the iClaustron processes. It's mainly controlled by the Cluster Manager
but other programs can also operate on it using the network protocol it
implements. The iClaustron Cluster Manager can also use it to access various
statistics on the computer it operates on.

Finally the iClaustron package also contains a program ic_configurator to
assist the user in writing the initial configuration files, another program
ic_bootstrap to start up the Cluster Servers and Cluster Managers as part
of the initial start of the iClaustron Grid. Finally another important
program is the ic_client which is used to enter client commands to the
Cluster Manager to manage the iClaustron Grid.

It is possible to also integrate MySQL Servers inside the iClaustron Grid,
this is not part of the current development.
